>> Burke Holland: Let's
talk about debugging.
This is where we really start to
crank this knob on VS code from
text editor towards IDE pretty hard.
And this section is gonna be a little bit
dense in terms of the terminology and
the concepts that we go over.
The hardest part of debugging
any application is just getting
the configuration right for
the application to run.
When we're talking about
JavaScript in VS Code,
there is no configuration required
to debug a JavaScript file.
>> Burke Holland: So
you can add a breakpoint to JavaScript
file like this one.
So let's just put it here.
>> Burke Holland: Actually,
let's put it up here.
And then you can just run this file
directly from VS code by pressing f5,
f5 is what launches
the debugger in VS code.
The other way to launch the debugger is
to click this green button right here.
It's the equivalent of f5 start debugging.
So I'm gonna collapse the sidebar and
press f5.
And by default VS code comes with
the node debugger installed.
You just get that out of the box.
I have included the Chrome debugger for
you,
and when we get to browser debugging,
you're gonna use that.
That's an extension,
it's not part of VS code,
it should be part of
the extension pack though.
There are other debuggers that
come with other extensions.
For instance,
there is a product called NativeScript
that allows you to build mobile apps and
it has a debugger.
And if you install the NativeScript
extension in VS code,
you can write any in the script apps and
you can debug them on your devices because
they've written a debugger for VS code.
So provided what you're working with has a
debugger, you can debug it in VS code, and
that's virtually,
I say everything, but it's most
things you can probably think of.
I don't know if there's a Cobalt debugger.
Maybe there is.
I don't know, anybody here doing Cobalt?
Okay, shocking.
All right, let's go ahead and
choose Node js here and we're going
to let this run and the application is
gonna run, it turned my light blue.
We've returned from the API and I've set
a breakpoint here just by clicking in
the left hand side here,
so standard debugging.
And when we do this,
the debug panel automatically pops up, and
we can see variables here.
We can add watches so
we can watch certain things.
We can inspect the response here and
look at the insights.
We can see the data,
the results and drill on down and
see what's actually coming back from
the API that we've got going here.
We can also see the call stack.
So we come up here,
we can move through the call stack.
Here's all of our watches and
then all of our breakpoints down here, so
we can disable them just
by selecting them here.
And then lastly you can see
what scripts are actually
loaded into the debugger at the moment.
So I'm gonna go ahead and continue
on here, so let's move through this.
So that's just your standard debugging
scenario with a simple JavaScript
application.
Now you can do conditional
breakpoints as well,
just like you can in every other editor.
But VS code also has
something in addition to
breakpoints, that's called logpoints.
In the case of this application,
I've got a loop here and
we might want to know what this item is,
okay?
So the way that we would normally handle
this is we would remove this line,
and we would say, console.log(item), okay?
Now, you can do this.
But it's actually easier once
you get the debugger working.
We can put our comment back here.
It's easier to use logpoints
to do the same thing.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna right-click here, and
I'm gonna say add a logpoint.
And then logpoints are basically console
log statements that the editor just runs
for you without you having to stop your
project, add a line in and then restart.
And so you can say here, item,
like this and hit Enter.
And you'll have the logpoint.
And if we run this here,
I'm gonna run it, actually,
let's run it in the debugger here.
>> Burke Holland: And
get to our debug console, and
you can see that it's logged
out the item that we put there.
Now you notice that I put
this thing in braces.
That's because if you put text in here,
like if I was to just put item,
what do you think it would log out?
>> Speaker 2: Item.
>> Burke Holland: Item, right.
So it's string interpolation
is what it is.
So we can say,
current item is, like this and
let's go ahead and run this again.
This time from here,
current item is, and it puts it out.
And you can also run
execute methods in here.
So you can do this.
>> Burke Holland: Let's run that.
>> Burke Holland: And
it's stringifying the result.
Now, an interesting thing about logpoints
is that if they fail, it doesn't tell you.
So for instance, in axios,
which is the library
that I'm using to make this HTTP call,
I'm gonna remove this logpoint.
Actually, we can leave it on this line.
In axios,
you cannot stringify the response object
because it has cyclical dependencies.
In other words, it is dependent on itself,
dependent on itself, dependent and
that thing is dependent upon the parent.
And when that happens,
you can't serialize it.
And so if we try to do that,
if we came in here and said,
JSON.stringify and
then we try to stringify the response,
that would throw an error but here's what
happens when we do it in a logpoint.
>> Burke Holland: You see what happened,
nothing.
So if you are ever using a logpoint and
nothing's happening,
it's because whatever you're trying
to do is not a valid statement.
So you need to go back and
try to figure it out.
It took me a long time, I spent a lot
of time working with logpoints and
they wouldn't work and like what is
going on, logpoints aren't working.
No, it's because I'm doing
something that is wrong.
It would be nice if logpoints told you,
hey, there's an error but
apparently it doesn't do that.
So if your logpoint isn't working,
that's why.
You can do other things on your logpoints,
you can evaluate an expression.
So you could say like item,
select item dot or
let's just say results.length
is greater than zero, right?
So this will log whether or
not that's true or false.
And you can also do a hit count, so
what you can say on the hit count is,
break when the hit count condition is met.
So we could say,
I want to know if the response length,
sorry, it's results.length, so
response.data.results.length is
greater than 2.
In other words, if there are more
than two items in the response,
I wanna know about it,
go ahead and log it out.
So you can use expressions and
hit counts along with your logpoints.
So go ahead and remove this logpoint here.
All right, that is the most simple example
of debugging that we possibly have.